Linux mayor the name in connection with
computers a few times you may have heard
of its importance in the electronics
community but what is Linux it's up in
short Linux is what is known as an
operating system curve now don't get
scared by the name an operating system
is pretty much what it sounds like a
system that operates something in this
case an operating system is something
like Windows or Mac OS X is a buffer
between the user and the actual nuts and
bolts of the machine itself rather than
you having to plug and unplug all the
wires inside your computer to make it do
something the operating system or OS
does that for you this is what Linux is
but with a twist
as I said before Linux is an operating
system kernel which means that in its
bare-bones form is nothing more than a
pile of code over three million lines of
it in fact sort of like a lump of
unshaped clay this allows corporations
businesses and developers and alike to
shape it into whatever form of operating
system they want they get the kernel and
make it into an OS for whatever they
need so it is powerful use in mind how
much do you think Linux costs the answer
is nothing
Linux is an ongoing open source project
it is a collaborative effort by
developers around the world each
contributing their code to the kernel to
improve its capability so how did this
all start the story of Linux begins at
the Hutt the Helsinki University of
Technology in 1991 at the time the Cold
War was drawing to a close cell phones
were the size of bricks and computers
were beginning their slow ature conquest
of the world
it was there that a man named Linus
Torvalds a 21 year old second year
computer science student and self-taught
hacker began work on a new operating
system but was going to be unique about
this operating system kernel was that it
was going to be free something not
common at the time the concept of free
software had only just started to become
popular thanks to the work of a
visionary named Richard Stallman some
years before Richard had created a
licensed community for free computer
software in the 80s called the GPL
license with hopes the developers would
contribute their code and projects
allowing him to build a thriving
community by 1991 this has started to
gain some momentum but had yet to see
the emergence of a full operating system
Richard had begun the construction of
his own operating system known as herd
but it would be some years before it was
ready and leanness could not wait that
long on August 25th 1991 a historic post
was sent out at the Helsinki University
of Technology hello everybody out there
using MINIX I'm doing a free operating
system just the Hobby won't be big and
professional like new probably never
support anything other than 80 hard
disks as that's all I have
by mid September of that year first
version of the kernel known as Linux was
released leanness himself hardly
believed that anything would come of his
little pet project soon however
developers from all over were gathering
enthusiastically around this new OS
first open-source operating system had
begun to move forward in October the
second version was released along with
this famous declaration from leaders you
pine for the nice days of MINIX 1.1 when
men were men and wrote their own device
drivers no more all-nighters to get a
nifty program working that this post
might be just for you my December
version 3 was out and being sculpted by
developers their number is growing from
hundreds to thousands Linux was however
not without opposition
famous professor Andrew Tenenbaum who
authored MINIX dubbed Linux obsolete I
still maintain the point at designing a
model of the kernel in 1991 is a
fundamental error be thankful you are
not my student you would not get a high
grade for such a design however this did
not discourage the stubborn young
programmer Lina's responded your job is
being a professor and researcher that's
one hell of a good excuse for some of
the brain damages of MINIX and Linux
development continued to gain momentum
soon commercial organizations moved in
bringing to bear industrial-strength
Linux was no longer just a hackers toy
so where is Linux today well for the
most part everywhere Linux is running
the world's fastest supercomputers as
well as many network servers including
the ones that power Google blogger
tumblr Facebook PayPal Twitter YouTube
and many others Linux is also the base
kernel for many phone operating systems
such as Android you use Linux every day
and Linux will no doubt be around for
many years to come